Hi, Bonjour, je l'essaye.
I'd like to welcome you to session 113,
Text on Mac OS X.
This session will focus on the
technologies that will enable
a Carbon application to display
text correctly on Mac OS X.
When I say correctly, I mean two things.
First, the text has to be in UniCode,
and you need to support
multilingual text.
Mac OS X is an international OS,
and you see it Monday with Avi.
We're going to be shipping a new version
of Mac OS X with support with Korean,
Chinese, and other languages in Europe.
And your application
needs to support UniCode.
UniCode is like, you know,
the standard for encoding text now.
The second point, which is very important
for our customers,
is you need to use Quartz
rendering to display the text.
Quartz is a powerful 2D rendering engine
that gives to Mac OS X its special taste.
The nice anti-aliasing on the text,
the drop shadows.
You need to use Quartz
to render your text.
You don't want your text
to stick like a sore thumb.
if you still use the
Quick Draw rendering.
Excellent.
In this session,
we'll discuss as well MLT,
which is the Multilingual Text Engine.
Last year in this same room,
I discussed MLT, the benefits,
the features,
and how it could be implemented
in your application.
We got tremendous feedback from MLT,
and I'd like to show you a
couple of applications that
are using MLT and are shipping,
actually.
Some of them are shipping right now.
I'll start with
Acrobat Reader.
We're very pleased Acrobat
has been using MLT.
For instance,
here you can see in the Find window.
And Acrobat needed to support UniCode.
And they had their
implementation using TextEdit.
And MLT fitted very well in this
integration towards Mac OS X.
With MLT,
they get the Quartz anti-aliasing
and the UniCode support they
needed in their edit text fields.
Another client of MLT and we're very
happy that they're using it is Maya.
Maya is a huge application,
and when they had to find a way
to render their text in Mac OS X,
they used MLT.
MLT was their choice.
Here they get, for instance,
in the script editor,
they have a full MLT object
with the scroll bars.
They support UniCode text,
and the text is anti-aliased correctly.
Another client,
and we're very pleased of that
because we think it's very
important for the platform,
is of course, ResourceSerer.
I'm sure all of you know ResourceSerer,
and here, ResourceSerer implements
MLT as a UTXT editor.
A lot of the strings you're going
to be passing to Apparence Manager,
for instance, have to be Unicode.
Well,
now with a new version of ResourceSerer,
and thanks to MLT,
the Multilingual Text Engine,
you're going to be able to have
Unicode resources in your application,
so you don't have to do a
CFString and convert your text
from Mac OS X encodings to Unicode,
and then pass it to MLT,
DrawTheme TextBox, or other APIs.
Another great feature that I really
like in the new ResourceSerer
is actually the Unicode Viewer.
They implemented in Resourcer
this window that shows you all
the character sets for UniCode,
the 65,000 characters.
So you could change the font and you'd
be able to see all the characters.
Here in this case, they use ATSUI,
or actually the
TXN Draw UniCode TextBox API,
which enables them once again
to have the UniCode support
and the great quartz rendering.
Last, and this is of course just
a couple of our customers,
the Finder.
The Finder uses MLT.
The Finder needs to be
able to enter Japanese and
Roman text in the text files.
Well here, in fact,
when you edit text in the Finder,
in fact, behind is an MLT text object.
Keycaps, you all know Keycaps.
Keycaps uses MLT as well and uses
the DrawTheme TextBox APIs to
display the characters on the keys.
Another great application, of course,
is WordText,
which takes power off MLT and shows
advanced typographic features that
we support on Mac OS X with AppSuite,
Apple-type services for Unicode imaging.
There are way more customers, of course,
and if you look at the
Carbon Development List,
you'll see a lot of questions on
MLTE and a lot of developers using it.
We're very pleased with what we've been
doing and we're very pleased with the
feedback that you're giving us so far.
Now, the agenda for today.
I'll give you quickly a brief
overview about the text architecture,
how the solutions we're going to be
talking about today are going to be
fitting in the Mac OS X overview and
the Mac OS X architecture by itself.
Then John Harvey,
our senior architect on MLT,
will be talking about what
APIs you're going to be able
to use to display static text.
Last year,
actually at the same conference,
we got a lot of feedback and
a lot of people wanted to have
a UniCode Text Edit Control.
They wanted the toolbox to have
an MLT control in the toolbox.
What I'm glad to say,
with the new version of Mac OS X,
the one that has shipped in March,
you have actually this
control and you can use it.
John will be talking about that as well.
Thank you.
We'll talk about that, don't worry.
And then of course we still have MLT.
If you need more control,
if you want support for drag and drop,
if you want support for embedded objects,
we'll talk a bit about how you
can do that once again with
a Multilingual Text Engine.
And we have a special guest.
We worked very closely with Metro-ERC,
and happy to say that actually,
Metro-ERC, in the next release,
will implement a couple of
new classes in Power Plant.
So in Power Plant,
you'll be able to drag and
drop an object and you get all
the MLT support you wanted.
Greg Dow, the architect for Power Plant,
will be here and come on stage and
show you a demo of his implementation.
The last point that we
talk about is Rick Fabric,
one of engineers on the MLT team,
will talk about tips and tricks on
how to use a multilingual text engine.
Sometimes we get some questions,
since the architecture is different
between quick draw text and MLT,
and he'll be answering a couple
of most of the questions,
most of the common questions,
when we can ask them.
Pretty interesting.
I encourage you to stay.
Quickly, the overview.
So we'll be talking today
about two different parts.
The first thing you have to
achieve in your application
is display some static text.
And if you use a drawstring,
it's not going to work.
Or draw text is not going to
work because it's going to work.
But then the text is going to
be rendered with Quick Draw.
And you don't want that.
You don't want your text to stick out.
You want it to use Quartz.
And here we talk about solutions to
draw static text using our technologies
that use Quartz and UniCode.
The second part,
we'll talk about text editing.
And here, once again,
you have two different choices.
We'll talk about the single line control,
which is the toolbox control
I talked about that uses MLT.
And in order to display bigger
text areas-- and once again,
if you want support for
embedded objects like sound,
picture, or movies,
then you'd be able to use MLT.
All these technologies use ATSUI.
ATSUI is the heart or text
rendering on Mac OS X.
ATSUI is Apple type services
for UniCode imaging.
And it's a powerful UniCode
layout engine that enables us
to enter CGK script-- Chinese,
Korean, Japanese-- and give us
advantage of Quartz rendering.
MLTE of course uses ATSUI directly and
has its own implementation using ATSUI.
On top of that,
you'll see that in order to display
static text and the single line control,
the Apparence Manager is the one
that will be actually using ATSUI.
And below all that,
you see that Quartz is the heart
of our 2D rendering and gives us
a point of flexibility of this new
architecture to render text on Mac OS X.
Alright,
in order to talk about these different
solutions to display text on Mac OS X,
I have to invite on stage John Harvey.
John Harvey has been working on MLT and
is the architect for the technology.
Well, it's great to have a chance to come
out and talk to people about the things
we've been working on for the last year,
and I appreciate your coming.
There we go.
So as Xavier said,
I'm going to talk about
three different areas:
static text drawing,
drawing a simple text area via
control the way you did it on
System 9 with the Edit Text control.
It's exactly the same kind of thing,
except you get all the
Mac OS X features with this new control:
Unicode editing, Quartz rendering,
automatic CJK support.
And then finally,
we'll talk a lot about building
your own text area using MLTE.
It's not that complicated,
but obviously there's more APIs and
so on you need to be involved in
than if you just use the control.
Okay, so displaying static text.
There's basically two
approaches you can use on 10.
You can use the theme text APIs,
which are really pretty nice,
because they bring together all
the parts you need to deal with to
get the right look in your text,
you know.
The theme text APIs,
they know about what is the localization,
they know about what the theme
appearance should look like,
they know about the state
of whatever that text is.
And then if you really want a lot
of control and like an incredibly
feature rich set of APIs,
you'd want to use Atsui.
Now, in this session,
I'm not going to talk any more
about Atsui rather than to say that.
There wasn't drawing with Atsui session.
There'll be feedback for them.
But it's just important to know
that if you really want to get
down and have fine-tuned text,
those APIs are going to be there.
And those APIs are available.
But we'll talk about the theme
text APIs for static text.
Okay, so here's the set.
It's a pretty small set.
Obviously the first thing you
want to do is render text.
For that, there's Draw Theme Text Box.
It's basically the same kind
of functionality you got
from the TextEdit text box,
but you get your quartz rendering,
which you can see we're going
to emphasize over and over again
how important that is to have.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, and finally,
I think a nice thing is
the truncate theme text.
On 9, you used to have to call,
I think it's a text utility function
to get a truncated string back,
and then you'd have to go
to Quick Draw to render it.
Truncate theme text will
do the rendering for you.
And, you know, these replace these
old familiar routines,
and I think a really nice thing is you
don't have to sometimes look in the,
in text edit,
sometimes look in Quick Draw,
sometimes look in text utilities.
They're all there in Appearance Manager,
specifically Appearance.h is the
header where you can find them.
Oops.
Okay, so talk a minute about the
parameters that you pass into this.
They have the concept of metafon IDs.
These have been around for a
while in the Appearance Manager,
but they give you some
really nice control,
or makes it easy for you to tell what
you want the text to look like without
having to do all the work you had to do
online where you'd have to go look in the
Script Manager data structures and things
like that to find what the right text is.
You use these APIs, you say, "Okay,
I want the views font,
the push button font,"
something like that.
The Appearance Manager does all the work,
what's the localization,
what's the right shadowing,
that kind of thing.
At the same time,
if you do want to use a font of the port,
there's a metafont that says,
"Use the information in the port."
And by using these metafonts,
you don't have to say a font, a style.
And again, if you wanted to use the
information in the graph port,
you use the metafont which says,
"Use port information."
Like I said, these will take care of
appropriate shadowing effects,
you know, if something's active,
inactive, that kind of thing,
on the desktop, drawn in white, you know,
the dot kind of text, that thing,
those things.
And these are Unicode-savvy.
One way that they are Unicode-savvy
is when you pass text into these APIs,
you use a CFStringRef.
That's really the way to package
Unicode text on Mac OS X.
And the toolbox deals
completely in those.
And it's an opaque structure.
You're probably familiar with it.
And it will efficiently
store Unicode text in there.
You just pass it into these functions
or other window titling menu functions,
and it will draw the text in there.
Okay, so making sure these
perform at their best,
there's a few things you can do.
Where appropriate,
these APIs take a CG context ref.
Um, now,
if you were allowed to pass null in,
if you do, the function will create a
CG context ref and then dispose it.
Obviously, that takes time-- some time,
not a huge amount of time.
But if you're calling the
function over and over again,
it's creating, throwing away, creating,
throwing away.
It's time wasted.
So you can create your own,
keep it around,
and just use that to pass in.
Like anything you code, you know,
be careful how often you measure text.
Catch the values you get
from measuring the text,
and so on.
Don't, like, constantly be calling, um,
the measurement routine all the time.
Um,
there's a lot more that goes on on 10.
You know, probably on 9,
it was real easy to just, uh, get,
you know, text width all the time.
That was real fast compared
to maybe storing it.
But it's really--it's important to
think about holding on to those values.
And of course, in the engineering group,
performance is our utmost concern,
and so we're working on
speeding things up internally.
Okay, so next area I'll talk a bit
about the edit text control,
which, you know,
for your basic editing needs, passwords,
so on, is there.
It's real easy to use.
Oops, keep pointing up at that.
OK, so again, you use this,
you get quartz rendering for free.
You don't need to worry about
creating the CG context.
In this case,
the control does that for you.
The one thing that's nice
is you use the same control,
and you'll get built-in
support for CJK input,
but really there's a lot now on
Mac OS X that has input methods.
I mean there's UniCode input methods,
hex input methods, things like that.
You just use this control,
it's all built-in.
It's different from 9.
On 9 you had to use,
be sure and use a different proc
ID if you wanted to care about that.
And probably diddle around a little
bit with TSMTE and modified dialogue
structures and things like that.
But this is,
you don't need to think about it,
it's just there.
Which of course is really important
on an international system.
Again, you know,
this control is built on top of MLTE.
That's different from
the Edit Text Control,
which was built on top of TextEdit.
But it's the same concept, you know,
the basic text engine and then
the control on top of that.
If you want to create this control,
well all the controls on 10
now have a create function,
which is a bit more
straightforward to use.
They're only on 10.
So the old ways of course still work,
new control, get new control.
And in that case you
have the new proc ID,
which is K control
edit UniCode text proc.
Okay, so with that,
we'll move on to the building your
own text area using MLTE directly.
So, you know, last year we talked about
some of these features,
but we want to go over them again.
People may not have been here.
People not, you know,
a lot of new developers
coming over to Mac,
I think, because of System 10.
Again, this is, on Carbon,
this is the only way you
can edit UniCode text.
This is what you use, MLTE.
There's no more 32K limit.
That's been said a lot of times.
It was a big problem in
the past with text edit.
For years and years, people said,
"Fix that, fix that." Well,
we didn't fix it in text edit.
We made a new engine.
And again,
you get your built-in support for CJK.
You don't have to worry about it.
And it's really not right, as I said,
to just say,
"Build in support for CJK." It's
built-in support for input methods.
And there can be an input
method for any language now,
any section of the UniCode character set.
On the old days,
you had to allocate and hook your
scroll bars up with text edit
and handle the scrolling there.
You don't have to do that.
That's built in.
Really, everything is handled,
drag and drop,
any sort of click handling that you had
to deal with a lot of code in the past.
Well, not a lot,
but a significant amount.
It's just handled with one function,
the TXN click function.
We support embedded objects, pictures,
sound, movies.
There's a single tab per document.
And we have a multiple undo/redo
stack and also a way to find out
what the undo/redo action is so you
can then not only just say undo/redo,
but undo typing, undo cuts,
and that kind of thing.
And, you know,
again and again we're going to say this,
you get the quartz rendering,
which is such a signature
part of Mac OS X.
Okay, so a quick comparison.
I talked about how in TextEdit
you had to do work to scroll
and print and things like that.
So on TextEdit, you had to write code,
create the scroll bars,
hook the rectangles up,
deal with offsetting the rack.
There certainly was a TE click function,
but if you were scrolling,
there was more that you had
to do than just call TE click.
All that scrolling is
handled with the TXN click.
There's one thing you know,
it's the multilingual text engine,
but for historical reasons,
the APIs begin with the signature TXN.
So it's building support for clicks.
That includes drag and drop
and all the highlighting.
And the other big thing is if
you wanted to print text at it,
you had to write a fairly
large amount of code.
And that's just, there's two functions,
TXN page setup and TXN print you
can call and you get the printing.
So just to emphasize this,
you can see the difference in lines.
These 269 lines, these samples are taken
from the TE sample,
which has been shipping
with all the development
environments that ever went out,
MetroWorks, MPW.
There's 269 lines to do these things,
compared to two if you do it in MLTE.
And on the web, there's a project,
a MetroWorks project,
which has the old TE sample
and then a new MLTE sample
built in the same project.
And you can compare the files,
you can see it's the
same basic functionality.
And it's just a lot of code
dropped out of the MLTE version.
And the nice thing is, you know, I mean,
you need this functionality,
but you'd really probably
rather not worry about it,
because you're trying to give
something else to your users,
your clients.
So you don't have to anymore.
Okay,
now something I'm really looking forward
to because I haven't seen it yet.
We're going to see the
demo from Greg Dow,
and I think this is
going to be really great.
I'm going to quickly just run
through a couple of slides here.
I think John already mentioned
everything that MLTE and ATSUI and
themed text drawing can do.
And what I've done is created some
Power Plant classes that wrap all
this functionality up into simple,
neat packages that you can
use directly in Power Plant.
So I have a class now for MLTE.
It replaces the existing
text edit classes.
There's also a class that calls
LThemeTextBox to give you just
a simple static text caption
that you can use instead of all
the other Power Plant caption
or static text controls.
Let me just move quickly
to the demo here.
This machine's seven.
I have a project here that I've
built with these new classes.
I'm just going to run it quickly.
First thing that comes up
is we have an MLTE pane.
[Transcript missing]
It's giving me the font
menu automatically.
It builds the font menu for me.
I can select.
More readable, bigger.
Capital's there, different font.
It also automatically supports
[Transcript missing]
There, I automatically get
Japanese characters mixed in
with the same English characters,
pictures, everything is all wrapped
together neatly for me by MLTE.
Undo, redo,
here I can undo what I did there,
undo a little more,
keep going on the undo here.
and others.
"I'm doing the picture drop
and then I can go back,
redo everything.
And all this is handled
automatically by MLTE.
What I did is I took the existing
Power Plant L-Edit text classes,
pretty much stripped out all the
code in each of the functions
and replaced it with one or two
lines of text of calls to MLTE.
So in terms of your code
that uses Power Plant,
it'll be almost exactly the same.
The same API, you'll be just calling
into a different object,
but your calls will all be the same and
it'll just work much better and faster."
show quickly here's a demonstration of
the theme box theme text box control
or actually not to control just the
pain one of the problems with this is a
normal static text control people have
mentions that it automatically erases
so here you can see that there's the
gray striped background behind the text
when I have it over a picture if you
don't want that to happen you can use
the new theme text box class which will
just draw the text directly without
any erasing and see if I click off it
there the text automatically dims there
comes back and that's all taken care of
automatically and this is all properly
anti-aliased here over the picture
Finally,
I just want to show quickly here at SUI,
although John didn't mention a lot of
the details of what you can do with it,
here is a sample here of the
animation I'm doing myself
just quickly inside a loop.
What I'm doing is I'm changing the
degree of rotation by five degrees
each time and then just redrawing.
And here I'm drawing over a
background picture and all that
SUI is handling everything for me.
So there's very flexible text.
You can set the rotation,
you can set the size, the style,
and all sorts of other features.
And all that is wrapped together
in two power plant classes,
one for handling the text
layout itself and the other
for handling the ADSUI style.
And you can take those classes and use
them in a custom pane to draw captions,
like if you're doing a graph
or something like that,
we need vertical text on an axis.
All this is accessible here from
just a couple calls to ADSUI classes.
and best of all, this is also integrated
now into Constructor.
quickly here.
Here's the MLTE pane that I had up there.
I can just double click here.
All the options for MLTE are accessible
to you here from the properties.
I can change the file type
that's associated with the MLTE,
the encoding.
Here's some options.
You probably can't read
all the options here,
but I can turn off whether
it has scroll bars,
whether the carrot blinks
in the background or not.
Let me shrink this one up here.
Take this
Let's shrink that a bit and
go back here to the layout
catalog and drag out a new...
MLTE pane here,
so I can put a new one right
next to that one there.
And if I save this.
I'll go back to my project and run.
We'll just bring in the new...
[Transcript missing]
Theme text.
I'm going to close this window here.
Bring up the, uh, the
and the Theme text window.
For the theme text box, again,
I have a couple new options.
It supports the theme font ID,
so here I've chosen to
use the current port font.
I can switch over to use the system font.
You won't see it updated in Constructor
since Constructor hasn't been
rebuilt yet with the new classes.
And maybe I'll turn off--I don't
want it to dim when inactive.
[Transcript missing]
through, bring up the theme text,
and now you can see the theme text
box is again drawn in the system font,
again using the theme font ID so
you don't have to worry when you're
internationalizing your code,
whether it's Japanese, Korean, English,
or whatever,
you'll get the proper system font
without worrying about having to set
up in PowerPlant now where you have
to make a text trace resource where
you put the name of the font in there.
Here you can choose the theme font ID.
Again, if I click here you can see
there the text doesn't dim,
I've turned that off,
so you have the option of having
the text dim or not in the
background depending on your needs.
So this is all built into PowerPlant.
Unfortunately, it's not in the version
you have on your CD now.
That version froze about a month ago
and I didn't have time to update it,
but it'll be in the next
seed version of PowerPlant,
which if you haven't signed up already,
you should consider joining the
MetroWorks Beta program and you can
come by the booth and ask about this
or check on the website and it'll give
you directions for sending an email
in to join up on the Beta program.
Subtitles by the Amara.org
community program.
community Thank you.
Thank you.
Well, that's really great.
I mean,
it's so rewarding to work on something,
and you wonder how much people
use it while you're working on it.
And then to see that
demo is fantastic for me.
And really thanks to Greg for doing that.
I can't wait to start using it myself.
Make my life a lot easier.
Okay, so now we'll talk a little
bit about the newer things.
We'll talk about Quartz rendering again.
And so Quartz rendering, you know,
over and over again,
this is what you can get.
You get your anti-aliasing,
it's a really significant
part of the look of Mac OS X.
Also in MLTE, we have the beginning of
support for Carbon Events.
We're going to extend
this as we go along.
Right now,
we support text input Carbon Events,
and I'll talk about some
of what this gives you.
On System 9, all the input from UniCode
keyboards came through Apple Events.
Currently on 10 now,
it by default comes through Apple Events,
but you can tell us to use Carbon Events,
or you can put your own text input
handler on top of us and do filtering,
which I'll talk about.
And the other thing we've done is,
where appropriate,
we haven't changed our APIs,
but underneath, under the hood,
we've adopted the newer
Mac OS X architecture.
The specific cases are
printing and the Scrap Manager.
So we use the promises, things like that,
if you're familiar with the
new Mac OS X Scrap Manager.
Okay, so quartz rendering.
Let's look at how you do this.
You get your system,
get that right system
look when you do it,
and it's really pretty simple to do.
You create a CG context,
and then you hook the CG context
up with your MLTE object.
That's all you need to do.
I can show you the code right here.
So, there's a few data structures.
You have your TXN,
the prefaced data structures,
the control tag and the control data.
The tag you set with a constant.
It's actually defined in at atsunicode.h.
That's the atzui header.
The other ones are in mactexteditor.h.
That's where MLTE constants
and functions are defined.
And then you create your CG context
with the createCGContext for port.
That's an API in Quick Draw.
Once that's done and
it's done successfully,
you plug that into the control data,
the value field,
and then you just simply call
this TXN setTXNObjectControl.
Once you've done that,
you get Quartz rendering.
You don't have to do anything else.
Okay,
the next thing is the Carbon events,
text input specifically.
It's nice to see everything
and then highlight like that.
Okay,
so we support all the text input events.
So that includes the text
input event when it's coming
directly from a keyboard,
and then the text input events
that come from an input method,
which include all the ones which
tell me which the input method
might ask where the text is,
or might ask for the text,
and that kind of thing.
The nice thing about text input events,
which
For you, which was very,
very hard to do if close to
impossible when we used Apple Events,
is you can pre- and
post-process text input.
and the other thing to know is that if
you tell MLTE to use text input events,
that's going to be the optimal path.
Because right now on 10,
if we are still using Apple events,
what happens is the text services
manager has to take the text
input event off the event queue,
pull the data out,
allocate an Apple event, fill that in,
and then pass that to us.
I mean it's not something that's
so time consuming that you
really notice it in your typing,
but if you tell MLTE to use
a text input event handler,
that doesn't happen.
The data structure can just move around
the S's without any massaging on the
part of the text services manager.
Okay, so how to do this?
You see this is,
the code is actually very,
very similar to what we saw
for the CG context draft.
You've got those same
TXN control data structures.
This time we use a
constant useCarbonEvents,
which is in the Mac Text Editor header.
And we have an array of keys,
an array of values,
which we'll use to build a CFDictionary.
We use CFDictionary so we
can include more and more
Carbon events as appropriate.
So the expandability is right
there and ready for you,
or us, ready for everyone.
Okay, then there's a data structure,
the TXN Carbon event info.
A few fields you set up there.
You say, "I'm using Carbon events."
Obviously you can turn them off if
you want by setting that to false.
In this case, there's a flag that says,
"I want you to turn off the Apple event
handlers." This is usually what you do.
But the thing is that when
you throw this object away,
if you have other TXN objects,
or there might be other TXN objects
around in your application,
you want to be sure and tell it to
turn the Apple event handlers back on.
Then you create your dictionary
with CFDictionary create,
one of the core foundation functions.
And at that point,
you put a pointer to the
Carbon event info in the value.
And you call that same function again.
It hooks it up and
MLTE will start using text,
handling text input with the Carbon event
handler rather than Apple events.
And in this case,
you need to be sure and release the
CFDictionary because all the information
MLTE needs is copied when you call
the set TXN object control function.
Very straightforward.
It's sort of like boilerplate.
Okay.
So, I'm going to use the boilerplate now
for telling MLTE what to do on 10.
Okay, so there's the three topics again.
And what, I mean,
I'm not going to say anything else.
There's no slides talking about
the printing or the scrap managers.
Just as I said before,
we have the exact same
functions that we had before,
you know, TXN paste, copy cut, TXN print,
TXN page setup.
But underneath,
they use the new architectures.
Okay, so at this point,
I've been working a
lot with Rick Fabrick.
He's done most of the work,
or all the work, not all the work,
but most of the work on CarbonLib.
And he's had the most
interaction with you,
the developers.
And he'll talk about some problems
people have had and issues that
they weren't sure about that
he's been able to help them with,
and basically his experience
working with developers.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks, John.
In working with developers who are
integrating MLTE into their applications,
we get many questions, as John has said,
similar to what's the best way to
program for this particular task.
So what we're going to do now is
go over some of the tasks that we
have received the most questions on.
What you see here is a list of the
tasks that we'll be discussing today.
And we'll see this list several
more times as we go through
each of the tasks individually.
We're going to be starting with,
what is the best way for you to
change the size of your text objects?
And there are some key concepts
to understand in order to get
the best interaction between
the user and your text object,
as well as the printout
that you're looking for when
you print the object out.
Now the first thing to understand is
what the difference is between the view
rectangle and the destination rectangle,
and how MLTE defines them.
So the destination rectangle
defines where the text will
wrap in your text objects.
It's the full page of text for your
object and is what would be printed
out when you print the object out.
The view rectangle shows the
currently visible portion of the
destination rectangle and is what
the user sees at any one time.
Now in MLTE,
the view rectangle includes the
area taken up by the scroll bar.
So if you're familiar with the
Mac OS's original text engine,
the view rectangle in text-edited
objects doesn't include the
area of the scroll bars,
and that's because text-edited
objects don't have scroll bars.
If scroll bars were necessary,
then the developer would have
to create and manage them
separately from the text object.
But since MLTE handles the creation and
the event handling automatically for you,
we do include the areas
from the scroll bars.
So the initial value of these
rectangles are set when you create
the object with Tx and newObject.
This API has a parameter that accepts
either null or a pointer to a rectangle.
If you passed in null to this API,
what you would get back is an object
that takes up the entire window.
Basically the view rectangle
would be the bounds of the window.
And the destination rectangle would be
set to the standard US letter page size.
If on the other hand you passed
in a pointer to a rectangle,
the object that you got back would
only take up a portion of the window,
and that portion would be equal to
the rectangle that you passed in.
Now in this case,
the destination rectangle
would be that rectangle,
but we don't include the scroll
bars in this case because you
want the text to wrap at the
scroll bar and not go underneath.
So let's say you need to
change the size of your object.
If you had passed a null and your
object takes up the entire window,
then what you should be calling when
the user is trying to change the size
of the window is Tx and growWindow.
And what this will do,
this API changes both the size
of the window and the view
rectangle for your object.
But if you had passed in
the pointer to a rectangle,
you would want to call one of these APIs.
So let's say you have an object that you
allow the user to change the size of,
and when the size of the object changes,
you want the text to always
wrap at the scroll bar.
In this case you would call the
first API here Tx and resizeFrame,
passing in the new window.
So you can see that the text
is always going to be at the
width and height of your object.
What this API does is it keeps the
destination rectangle and the view
rectangle in sync so that the text
will always wrap at the scroll bar.
Now, let's say you have another object
that when the user changes its size,
you don't want to change
the size of the text,
the destination rectangle in your object,
just the view into it.
In this case,
you would call the second API here,
TX_IN_SET_FRAME_BOUNDS.
In this case,
you would be passing in all four
boundaries of the new view rectangle.
Now, this API is very handy if your
object takes up the entire window,
because what it does is...
Well, actually, I'm not there yet.
So what this API will do is it's
also helpful when you want to move
the object around in your window,
because you are passing
in all four boundaries.
So we don't offer an API that allows you
to change just the destination rectangle.
But if you find it necessary
to change the dimensions of
the destination rectangle,
what you can do is call TXN resize frame,
passing in the new width and height
of the destination rectangle.
And what this will do is the
side effect will be that the
view rectangle will also change,
so then you could call after
that TXN set frame bounds so that
you can reset the view rectangle
back to what you want it to be.
Thank you.
So we do offer a couple of
options that allow you to change
the behavior of these API,
and they deal with how the
text will wrap in your objects.
and the first option here,
Always Wrap at View Edge.
If you go back to the example
of your object where you always
want the text to wrap the edge,
what you could do is pass in
this mask to Tx a new object
when you create the object.
And what this option will do is it
will keep the destination rectangle
always in sync with the view rectangle,
regardless of which of the API you call.
So what I was going to say before
is if you have a window that the
object takes up the entire window,
You're going to have to
call Tx in Grow window.
And normally this API only changes
the size of the view rectangle.
But if this option is set,
then the destination rectangle will be
kept in sync with the view rectangle and
text will always wrap in your window.
So if you have an object that you
allow the user to edit source code,
you're going to want
to turn Word Wrap off.
So our second option
here allows you to do so.
What you would do is you would pass
in the Word Wrap state tag to the
API TXN set TXN object controls.
And what that does is basically
sets the width of the destination
rectangle to be infinite.
So text will not wrap unless
the user explicitly enters a
character that ends a line.
And one example would be character term.
So along with the tag,
what you'd want to pass in is a constant
that is defined in MacTextEditor.h
telling the object whether it
should be turning WordRef on or off.
So we offer several API that lets
you change the size of your objects,
and that gives you the flexibility of
getting the exact behavior that you want,
and you can have different
types of objects.
So another task that we've gotten lots of
questions on is how to set the style of
a certain range of text in your object.
And in order to do that,
what you would need to call
is txnSetTypeAttributes.
What you would do is you would
fill in an array of TX and
type attributes with all of the
attributes that you want to change,
and then pass that array into the
API along with a count of the number
of attributes you're changing.
What I want you to note here is that you
can change as many of the attributes as
you want with a single call to the API,
just simply by filling in as many of
the elements of the array that you need.
Now along with the array and the count,
you would also be passing in
the start and end offsets for
the text you want updated.
So in this case,
when this text gets executed,
the current selection will become red.
It will have a font size of 36,
and it will become bold.
Pretty straightforward.
Filtering text.
That's another important thing
that we get questions on.
And so
For instance,
you may have an MLTE field that you
only want numbers to be entered into,
or you want to filter out characters like
the carriage return or tab character.
What you would need to do
is install some filters,
and in this case,
for key events entered from the keyboard,
these filters take the form
of Carbon event handlers.
Here's an example of one of them.
Normally what you would do is
you would install this handler
to the particular class,
the event class of text input and the
event kind of UniCode for key event.
So you wouldn't be doing the test
for those values here in your filter,
but I put them here so you
can see what their values are.
This example here basically
just makes sure that all the key
downs in your object are numbers.
If they're not numbers,
then they're filtered out.
So you do your test.
If you want the text to be
entered into your object,
then what you would do is you would
return event not handled error,
telling the Carbon event manager
that you haven't handled the event,
so pass it on to some
other handler that may.
And in this case, that would be MLTE.
If you do want to filter the text out,
then you would return no error,
telling the Carbon event manager that
you've handled the event with no error
and nothing else needs to happen.
So this event handler for UniCode
for a key event will get called
for every key event that's entered
into the keyboard if there isn't
an input method handling the text.
If you do have an active inline area,
however,
a seconds handler will be called,
and this is the update active input area.
What you would do here is
basically the same thing,
but you would need to wait until the
active input area has been confirmed.
And there's a piece of information
in the event that you can examine
to tell when this happens.
When this does happen,
then all you need to do is do your test
on all of the text that was just entered.
And part of the data for the
event is the range offset,
so you know exactly what text to filter.
And you return the same values
depending on whether you
want to filter that data in,
filter that data out or let it pass in.
Normally you wouldn't
have two separate filters,
you'd have a single one and
you could install it directly
to the two event kinds,
Update Active Input Area and
Unicode for Key Event.
have two filters here so that I can
fit them on a slide--on two slides.
Okay,
so entering data in from the keyboard is
one way to get text into your object but
you can also have drag events happening.
So to be able to filter that data,
you would need to install
your own drag handlers.
And it's pretty easy to do.
The first thing you need to do is tell
MLT not to install its drag handlers,
and then basically you just install
your drag and drag receive handlers.
And I'll describe those
two handlers in a second.
Telling MLTE not to install its
drag handlers is really easy.
All you do is when you're
creating your object,
you pass in "Do not install
dragprox mask" to Tx a new object.
Now,
this mask doesn't disable drag and drop.
Dragging from your object is
still enabled at this point.
All it does is it temporarily disables
drags to your object until you've
installed your own drag handlers.
So the first drag handler you need to
install is the drag tracking procedure.
And this handler gets called
continuously as the user is
dragging the data over your object.
And MLTE's default behavior
isn't sufficient in most cases.
So all you would need to
do is pass this event on to
MLTE by calling txndragtracker.
In my example here,
I'm doing some eye candy just to show
you that if you need to do something,
you can.
But as I said,
MLTE's default behavior is,
in most cases, sufficient.
Now the filtering of the data is done
here in your drag-receive procedure.
And this gets called once when the
user lets go of the mouse button and
has dropped the data into your object.
This example here also filters
out anything that isn't a number,
so the first thing you need to do is
test the data to see if it's all digits,
all numbers.
If so, then you want to pass the event on
to MLTE by calling TXN_DRAG_RECEIVER.
If you do want to filter the text out,
however, you return no error,
telling the drag manager that you've
handled the event with no error
and nothing else needs to happen.
So I've given you some help on
some of the tasks that we've been
getting questions from you guys.
If you have any more questions,
and I'm sure you do,
please stay for the Q&A session at the
end of this session and let us have it.
At this time,
I'd like to bring Xavier back up
to go over a quick summary of what
we've been talking about today.
Xavier?
Okay.
Thank you.
quick wrap-up for this session so once
again you don't want your application to
stick out like a sore thumb by displaying
text with quick draw text and you want
your customers to be able to enter unique
code text and use all the power of that
suey and the quartz rendering once again
all these technologies have been talking
about today use the power of at sweet
for doing the unique code rendering
and use the power of quartz to actually
bleed the text correctly with the right
anti-aliasing so in order to display
text on the Mac OS X please use the
H I toolbox API's the theme text box
API's are great we're still working
of course and always making them better
they are like a nice migration for you
to display text static text correctly
If you want to have editable text areas,
you have two solutions.
If you want a quick turnaround,
and let's say you're using
already the old TextEdit control,
please use the new
UniCodeEditTextControl.
John talked about how you can use that.
It's very straightforward.
It could be just a matter of using the
new proc ID for the UniCodeTextControl.
If you need more control, and as we said,
if you need embedded objects,
if you need support for sound, movies,
and pictures in the object,
if you want to control yourself,
the score bars, if you want vertical,
horizontal, if you want drag and drop,
please use the MLT APIs directly.
I think we showed you that
the set of APIs that we're
giving you is very powerful.
In just a couple of calls,
you'll be able to achieve a lot.
You get not only the support
for multi-lingual text,
but you'll get as well all these features
that have been missing in TextEdit.
As you're seeing too, with Power Plant,
if you're using Power Plant,
you get all these features very
quickly integrated in your application,
which is going to make your life way,
way easier.
I'd like to give you some information
on where you can get actual
information on our documentation.
We just released the MLT documentation
which has been updated.
TechPubs has been doing
like a fabulous job with our
technologies in the last year,
releasing more and more information.
And I'm glad to say that actually you'll
be able to get the PDF on the web,
or you can actually get the bone
documentation from FatBrain.
You have here like, you know,
the two places on the web
where you can get them.
We have a lot of sample code that
uses the Multilingual Text Engine.
And you'll be able actually to find the
latest sample code on the CarbonLib SDK.
We have as well an MLT SDK,
but the CarbonLib SDK is great
because we're updated every time
we do a new release for CarbonLib.
So you'll get there like, you know,
the latest things.
You'll get like actually the application
that was written just to show the
migration between text to MLT.
It's kind of nice.
AtSuite is the center of text rendering,
and that's like, you know,
the foundation for all of text drawing.
Once again, as John said,
you need more control on the layout.
You really need to
measure the text yourself,
and you need, let's say you're writing
your own text engine,
then please check out
Let's Read documentation.
And here you have it.
You'll find it on developers.apple.com.
So where to go from here?
We didn't talk about Cocoa Text,
but for a very good reason,
which is Cocoa Text is already ready
for UniCode and supports Quads as well.
If you need more information about using
text for your next TextView classes,
for instance in Cocoa,
please go to the session 122 on Thursday,
which will be actually in this hall.
Font management is a big, big,
big new thing here on Mac OS X with all
these new fonts that we support now.
I encourage you, if you need to have more
information on that,
to go to session 128,
Thursday at 2 in Room C.
I'll be there.
We talked about the Quartz support.
And if you need more
information about how do I get
my CG context on my graph port,
how can I manipulate, do rotations,
skewing, rotation,
all these new things that are supported
by the Quartz rendering engine,
please go to session 132,
Graphics and Imaging Tips and Tricks,
in room A2 on Friday at 9:00 AM.
If you have feedback,
and I'm sure you have,
and you want to let us know
that we're on the right track,
you love what we're doing,
or even if you have questions
and you want to tell us,
hey, I need this API, please come to the
International Feedback Forum.
It's a great way for us to
measure what we're doing,
how much of these answers you need,
and it's a great way as
well to talk to developers.
Another great way to talk to our
engineers is to come to more of what
we call the International Lunch,
where French food will be served,
in the cafeteria, actually.
We'll try to get some balloons,
and we'll have different themes going on.
We'll have a table for if you want to
talk about the font management APIs.
We'll have a table about text,
and we'll get Cocoa engineers
as well there.
So if you have Cocoa and
Carbon questions on the same table,
you'll be able to get your answers.
We'll have another table, too,
on localization.
There is a session that is not there,
but we'll have a session on localization
and how you can localize your
application for Mac OS X tomorrow,
Thursday, in Room C at 3:30.
Should you have any questions,
you can always contact
me at xavier.apple.com.
I work in worldwide developer
relations and that's my job to
answer your needs and to make sure
that the APIs that you want and the
bugs you want to be fixed are fixed.
So you can always contact me.
It's great.
I have a lot of developers already
contacting me and have been working very
closely with probably some of you here.
Don't hesitate to send an email.